
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="cse_570_wireless_mobile_networking_fall_2014">CSE 570 Wireless/Mobile Networking (Fall 2014)</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "CSE 570 Wireless/Mobile Networking (Fall 2014)" [1-62] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit2" id="grading">Grading</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Occasional quizzes and homeworks (33%), midterm and final exam (33%), term project – in groups of 2-3, solo project is also acceptable, but not ideal (34%). If significant work is done in project – specifically developing a useful tool or analysis, you can choose to shift more weight to the project. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Grading" [63-385] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit3" id="record_of_class_activities_and_readings">Record of class activities and readings</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h5 id="wireless_physical_layer">Wireless physical layer</h5>
<div class="level5">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Slides used in 1st lecture (9/3) on wireless physical layer<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/s/kn9wgmghuiso5q7/phy-layer-2up.pdf?dl=0" class="urlextern" title="https://www.dropbox.com/s/kn9wgmghuiso5q7/phy-layer-2up.pdf?dl=0"  rel="nofollow">External Link</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Text used for wireless physical layer: COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS ENGINEERING, Proakis and Salehi, Prentice Hall, 2002 Ed. (see sec 7.6 for bit error rate analysis for binary PAM etc.)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Nitin Vaidya&#039;s notes. See Chapter 2 for wireless physical layer. <a href="https://www.dropbox.com/s/zx0jj4k0qqad1jq/Notes-chaps-1-4-Nitin-Vaidya-Sp10.pdf?dl=0" class="urlextern" title="https://www.dropbox.com/s/zx0jj4k0qqad1jq/Notes-chaps-1-4-Nitin-Vaidya-Sp10.pdf?dl=0"  rel="nofollow">External Link</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lecture on (9/8): time domain and freq. domain representation, basic concepts of Fourier Series and Transforms, Shannon&#039;s capacity law, concept of dB, dBm. Difference between capacity, bit rate, throughput, bandwidth. Read Vaidya&#039;s notes - Chapter 2. </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lecture on (9/9):  <a href="https://www.dropbox.com/s/q9p3gammpdh47xd/BER-vs-SNR-802.11.pptx?dl=0" class="urlextern" title="https://www.dropbox.com/s/q9p3gammpdh47xd/BER-vs-SNR-802.11.pptx?dl=0"  rel="nofollow">BER vs. SINR for 802.11.</a> <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friis_transmission_equation" class="urlextern" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friis_transmission_equation"  rel="nofollow">Friis path loss equation.</a>  <a href="http://www.distributed-wireless.com/calculators/pathloss_RSSI.html" class="urlextern" title="http://www.distributed-wireless.com/calculators/pathloss_RSSI.html"  rel="nofollow">Path loss calculator.</a> Also, Read Vaidya&#039;s notes - Chapter 2, everything regarding path loss.  <a href="https://www.dropbox.com/s/953ap2lyvam5uoe/path-loss-model-survey.pdf?dl=0" class="urlextern" title="https://www.dropbox.com/s/953ap2lyvam5uoe/path-loss-model-survey.pdf?dl=0"  rel="nofollow">Survey paper on wireless path loss and coverage prediction.</a> Read at least Sec IIIA, Sec IVC and skim through the rest. </div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>

<h5 id="localization_of_wireless_devices">Localization of wireless devices</h5>
<div class="level5">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lecture on (9/15): Localization. Two basic methods – based on ranging using signal strength, timing, etc., and based on finger printing. <a href="https://www.dropbox.com/s/ysdbb5focwa0lru/lamarca-location-awareness-tutorial.pdf?dl=1" class="urlextern" title="https://www.dropbox.com/s/ysdbb5focwa0lru/lamarca-location-awareness-tutorial.pdf?dl=1"  rel="nofollow">Location Systems tutorial paper by A. Lamarca and E. De Lara.</a> At the minimum, read Sec 2.3, 2.4 for GPS, Sec 4.1, 4.2 and 5.1, 5.2, 5.4 for WiFi and cellular networks. </div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>

<h5 id="white_space_spectrum_and_secondary_operation">White space spectrum and secondary operation</h5>
<div class="level5">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lecture on (9/17): TV White Space. General idea of TVWS, concept of protection region and spectrum databases. <a href="https://www.dropbox.com/s/o5gl8g63os49auv/TVWS-handout.pdf?dl=1" class="urlextern" title="https://www.dropbox.com/s/o5gl8g63os49auv/TVWS-handout.pdf?dl=1"  rel="nofollow">Slides.</a> Read this paper:<a href="http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1785" class="urlextern" title="http://arxiv.org/abs/1304.1785"  rel="nofollow">Farzad Hessar, Sumit Roy: Capacity Considerations for Secondary Networks in TV White Space.
</a> Sec 1,2,3,4 and Appendix A.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="https://www.dropbox.com/s/6tsixxg0dt4l4b4/quiz%201%20sol.pdf?dl=1" class="urlextern" title="https://www.dropbox.com/s/6tsixxg0dt4l4b4/quiz%201%20sol.pdf?dl=1"  rel="nofollow">Quiz 1 solutions.</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>

<h5 id="medium_access_control_protocols">Medium access control protocols</h5>
<div class="level5">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lecture on (9/22): Medium access control protocol. Scheduled and random access protocols. Aloha. Carrier-sensing. Read Vaidya&#039;s notes above - Chapter 3. </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lecture on 9/24: Discussion on project topics. Medium access control protocols to continue from next class. </div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Record of class activities and readings" [386-3058] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit4" id="term_project">Term Project</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h5 id="ground_rules">Ground Rules</h5>
<div class="level5">

<p>
Typically 2-3 students per project. A proportionately more complete work is expected from a 3 students group than 2. (You can also go solo if you like; but it is easier to work in a group as projects could be involved and also it is easier for us to manage projects if there are fewer of them.)
</p>

<p>
Several ideas are provided in a following ideas document. This document will be evolving within the next week. You are not limited to these ideas. But these are the ideas we have some concrete interest in and so they are fairly well-defined and also novel. 
</p>

<p>
Your eventual deliverable is a report plus necessary code/prototype system as appropriate. 
</p>

</div>

<h5 id="project_idea_documents">Project idea documents</h5>
<div class="level5">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="https://docs.google.com/a/cs.stonybrook.edu/document/d/1Gpoc3GQNaI4wZflgzWBBngWrjXauWXG48QNznNbO7QU/edit?usp=sharing" class="urlextern" title="https://docs.google.com/a/cs.stonybrook.edu/document/d/1Gpoc3GQNaI4wZflgzWBBngWrjXauWXG48QNznNbO7QU/edit?usp=sharing"  rel="nofollow">Project ideas document.</a> Note: you need to be logged in cs.stonybrook.edu Google app domain (not stonybrook.edu) to access the document. </div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Term Project" [3059-] -->