
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="cse_570_wireless_mobile_networking_fall_2014">CSE 570 Wireless/Mobile Networking (Fall 2014)</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <em>Grading: occasional quizzes and homeworks (33%), midterm and final exam (33%), term project – in groups of 2, for more involved work 3 is acceptable, solo project is also acceptable, but not ideal (34%). If significant work is done in project – specifically developing a useful tool or analysis, there could be more weight on project.</em></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Slides used in 1st lecture (9/3) on wireless physical layer<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/s/kn9wgmghuiso5q7/phy-layer-2up.pdf?dl=0" class="urlextern" title="https://www.dropbox.com/s/kn9wgmghuiso5q7/phy-layer-2up.pdf?dl=0"  rel="nofollow">External Link</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Text used for wireless physical layer: COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS ENGINEERING, Proakis and Salehi, Prentice Hall, 2002 Ed. (see sec 7.6 for bit error rate analysis for binary PAM etc.)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Nitin Vaidya&#039;s notes. See Chapter 2 for wireless physical layer. <a href="https://www.dropbox.com/s/zx0jj4k0qqad1jq/Notes-chaps-1-4-Nitin-Vaidya-Sp10.pdf?dl=0" class="urlextern" title="https://www.dropbox.com/s/zx0jj4k0qqad1jq/Notes-chaps-1-4-Nitin-Vaidya-Sp10.pdf?dl=0"  rel="nofollow">External Link</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lecture on (9/8): time domain and freq. domain representation, basic concepts of Fourier Series and Transforms, Shannon&#039;s capacity law, concept of dB, dBm. Difference between capacity, bit rate, throughput, bandwidth. Read Vaidya&#039;s notes - Chapter 2. </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lecture on (9/9):  <a href="https://www.dropbox.com/s/q9p3gammpdh47xd/BER-vs-SNR-802.11.pptx?dl=0" class="urlextern" title="https://www.dropbox.com/s/q9p3gammpdh47xd/BER-vs-SNR-802.11.pptx?dl=0"  rel="nofollow">BER vs. SINR for 802.11.</a> <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friis_transmission_equation" class="urlextern" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friis_transmission_equation"  rel="nofollow">Friis path loss equation.</a>  <a href="http://www.distributed-wireless.com/calculators/pathloss_RSSI.html" class="urlextern" title="http://www.distributed-wireless.com/calculators/pathloss_RSSI.html"  rel="nofollow">Path loss calculator.</a> Also, Read Vaidya&#039;s notes - Chapter 2, everything regarding path loss.  <a href="https://www.dropbox.com/s/953ap2lyvam5uoe/path-loss-model-survey.pdf?dl=0" class="urlextern" title="https://www.dropbox.com/s/953ap2lyvam5uoe/path-loss-model-survey.pdf?dl=0"  rel="nofollow">Survey paper on wireless path loss and coverage prediction.</a> Read at least Sec IIIA, Sec IVC and skim through the rest. </div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
